Trace Application Metrics: duration clarification (#13156)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/guide/metrics_namespace.md

`trace.<SPAN_NAME>.duration`
: **Prerequisite:** This metric exists for any APM service.<br>

> **Description:** Measure the total time for a collection of spans. Specifically, it is the total time spent by all spans over an interval - including time spent waiting on child processes. When divided by `trace.<SPAN_NAME>.hits`, the result provides the average. To get percentiles, use [DDSketch-based metrics][11]. <br>

Reviewer: @wantsui while factually correct, we should guide users to use the sketch metrics always, not just for percentiles. A sketch metric can be aggregated with avg:trace.<op_name> as like it can be aggregated with p99:trace.<op_name>.

Maybe something like: When divided by `trace.<SPAN_NAME>.hits` can yield an average latency but we recommend using [DDSketch-based metrics][11] for all latency calculations.

Author: Done on the latest commit!

Should a similar message be applied to all the duration metrics written under **Duration by** as well @omris1 ?

Author: I'm marking this resolved since we discussed the wording in a separate thread. The wording now marks this metric as legacy and recommends using DDSketch.

> **Description:** [LEGACY] Measure the total time for a collection of spans within a time interval, including child spans seen in the collecting service. Previously used to generate "% exec time for downstream services" graph. When divided by `trace.<SPAN_NAME>.hits` , the result can yield an average latency, but this is not the recommended approach. For average latency calculations refer to **Latency Distribution** metric section above. <br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Description:** [LEGACY] Measure the total time for a collection of spans within a time interval, including child spans seen in the collecting service. This metric used to generate the "% exec time for downstream services" graph. When `trace.<SPAN_NAME>.duration` is divided by `trace.<SPAN_NAME>.hits`, the result can yield an average latency, but this is not the recommended approach for calculating the average latency. Instead, refer to the [Latency Distribution](#latency-distribution) section for average latency calculations. <br>
```
